And this is where we need to talk
about statistics a little bit.
Again, don't be worried.
This isn't going to be
like a crazy math class.
We're just going to talk a little
bit about a few concepts.
First, average.
Average is the the go-to tool that
most people will use when they want to
look at a lot of data.
So I have this huge set of data and
I'll just take the average of it and
I'll be good.
But there's huge problems with thinking
about performance in terms of averages and
that's what we're gonna talk about.
So let's say we have an average
performance score of 80.
Now that could mean
a couple different things.
It could mean this averages out to 80.
We have three people that get a 99,
three people to get a 90,
three people that get a 70 and
three people that get a 60.
What does 80 mean here?
Is that we have half the people
have a really great score, and
half the people have a really crap score.
Nobody got an 80.
Like there's no 80,
there's nobody's having an okay time,
everybody either loves it or they hate it.
Now it could mean other things too,
it could mean almost everybody had a great
score we have a whole bunch of '90s,
a whole bunch of 85, so whole bunch
of like really acceptable scores.
But 10% of the people are so
bad that like they would
complain online about how bad and
slow your site is.
This is also 80, so 80 averages
hide a bunch of interesting data.
They hide like what
the overall picture looks like.
So generally,
when we look at web performance data,
we don't talk about averages.
We talk about something else.
We talk about percentiles.
What the hell is a percentile?
Well, let's break that down.
A percentile is if we take all
of the data, let's say we have
11 scores here,
ranging from 0 to 100 every 10.
Just for simple math, the 50th percentile
is if we arrange them in order,
what score is the halfway point at?
>> Todd Gardner: So we have halfway
through the 50th percentile is 50.
Now another way of saying this
would be p50 that's percentile 50.
You could also call this the median,
is the same word for the 50th percentile.
The 50th percentile, that's interesting,
now we're using that to
illustrate the concept.
But generally in performance,
we don't care about the 50th percentile.
We care about some other scores.
We care about the 75th percentile and the
95th percentile and the 99th percentile.
We care about these because
these represent the 75th is what
do the majority of users experience?
What's the worst score that
the majority of users experience?
The p75 is in fact what Google's
using in their Core Web Vital
reporting to decide what's your one score.
It looks at the 75th percentile.
So the 75th percent worst score
is that one score roll up.
Now for your own perspectives, it's also
interesting to know what your 95th or
99th are, because it's a representation of
the worst scores, the worst performance.
Now, some of you might be asking, well,
why don't you just take
the 100th percentile?
Why don't you take
the literal worst score?
And that's generally
because of garbage data.
The web is a weird place if you collect
everybody's like load time over
a couple of 1,000 data points,
the worst score will be like this one took
three years to load, which isn't real.
It didn't really happen, but
you'll get garbage data, and so
you generally wanna kind
of throw a little bit away.
That's the same reason why I have both
the 95th and the 99th here is depending on
how much data you have, you might want to
throw away a slightly larger percentage.
If you only get 10,000 hits a month,
or 50,000 hits a month,
you might wanna look at the 95th
because the 99th might still be
a little weird in terms of like
the amount of data that you capture.
So let's look at how
these percentiles change.
So this is like an even distribution
of data we had, one person with a 0,
one person with 10,
one person with 20, etc.
Let's look at like
a different set of scores.
So in this case,
the p50 was 50, the p75 was 75,
the p95 is 95,
it's really easy to think about.
The average for comparison is also 50 in
this example with this
very normal distribution.
So, let's look at a not
normal distribution.
So, here's a distribution of scores
that's much closer to a set of data
that we might get from web performance
where it ranges in a much narrower zone.
The worst people are getting 79,
80s, stuff like that.
[LAUGH] The best users
are getting like 79, 80s.
The worst users got 256 and
there's a range there.
Now notice between these distributions,
the percentiles didn't
change where they were.
It always represents
the median user experience,
the majority worst user experience, and
the very worst user experience but
the average shifted a lot.
The average in this case was thrown off by
that garbage data at the end, we got this
weird one off person that had a really
bad score, and it threw off our average.
So we have to think about these
percentiles and what they mean when we
interpret larger data sets, we're looking
at real data that has hundreds, thousands,
tens of thousands millions of data points.
And we interpret them by looking
at the 75th or 95th percentile for
representing the majority of user and
the worst user.
So let's translate this back
to lab data and field data.
When we're thinking about lab data.
Lab data is easier to capture.
We open up our browser,
we visit the site, we run a report.
We got a data point, it's easy.
But field data is more accurate.
There's a lot of data points, but
it represents the real experiences
from the people who visit your site or
if we were to translate that down.
Lab data is a diagnostic.
Field data is experience.
We generate a piece of lab data as
a diagnostic to understand how did my site
perform right now?
And are there opportunities
I could use to improve it?
But field data is the real
experience from people.
So it's It's important
on when to use each.
If you're trying to
understand is my site fast,
you need field data to tell you that.
If you're trying to improve
the score of your site,
you can use lab data to help you
understand what needs to be improved.
The score you get in lab data
doesn't mean your site is fast.
You can get a 100 perfect lab score and
still have a slow,
frustrating, painful site to use
that's getting SEO penalized.
You can also have a lab score that
says your site is slow and crappy and
have perfect Core Web Vitals scores,
as far as Google is concerned.
They're not correlated It together,
because a lab data is one
data point in this spectrum.
Let's talk about how we interpret this.
So when we're talking about lab data and
how to do it.
What's really important is how
you gather that lab data, and
cuz you need to simulate
something that looks
a little bit closer to reality
than what your workstation is.
You need to think about, are you going
to simulate as mobile or desktop.
Who are you trying to get
performance information from?
What kind of network conditions does
a typical user have when they access your
site and what's the processing
power of their device?
Chances are they don't have
the same laptop that you do.
They don't have the processing
power that you do, and
they're probably not located right
next to the host like you are.